
3D Graphing Program for TI-83+
------------------------------

*All the files included must be put on the calculator for the program to work
------------------------------

Upon running the program a home screen will be displayed with the following options
 - Z= 
	a. this is where the equation is entered with variables X and Y as the variables z is related to in some way
	b. the equation does not need to exist at all points within the defined window because imaginary z values will be omitted. 
	c. division by zero will crash the program
 - Window
	a. the window can be specified; the initial view display will be on the X-Z axis 
 	b. xgrid and ygrid refer the the number of lines for the grid on the x and y planes 
 - Zoom 
	a. Prompt for the zoom factor, or how much the image will scale zooming in or out(i.e. scale factor  = 1.1 means the image is scaled by 10%)
 - Graph
 	a. Graphs the equation
 - Exit 
	a. exits the program

------------------------------

Controls 

*any prompt needs to receive a value

 - Home Screen
	a. up and down are used to scroll through the menu options
	b. Enter is used to enter a menu option
	c. z= and zoom will only close after the user inputs and equation or scale value respectively
		Shortcuts:
			a. y= opens z=
			b. window opens window
			c. zoom opens zoom
			b. graph starts the graphing sequence
			e. Clear is exit

 - Window Screen 
	a. up and down are used to scroll through the window options 
	b. enter opens the tab 
	c. upon opening a tab values must be input and then enter must be pressed to return to the window menu
	b. graph brings the user to the home screen

- Loading screen
	a. on will break the program as it will with any other ti-basic program but after a bit of time it should finish 

- Graph screen
	a. up and down rotate the image around the x-axis 
	b. left and right rotate the image around the z-axis 
	c. vars and clear rotate the image around the y-axis 
	d. y= return to the home screen
	e. window opens the window screen
		a. graph is used to exit the window screen
	f. zoom prompts the zoom factor, a value must be entered and then enter must be pressed to return to the graph screen
	g. 2nd exits the program

------------------------------

Operations 

 - To Note
	a. when an equation is input it is stored in str1 with the x's and y's replaced with L1 and L2 respectively.
	   the string can then be stored to a list and the values will automatically generate, but then the new list will be tied to lists L1 and L2 which creates problems when rotating.
	   To get around this a temporary list is used to store the z values and then move the z values to a permanent list at which point the temporary list is deleted. 
	b. When the y= tab is opened after an equation is input the old equation is displayed under the new text so that it can be retyped if necessary. 
	   The string displayed does not count as input meaning a string will need to be input.(the same applies to zoom factor and window settings)
	c. Axis
		a. the x-axis is the same as on the calculator(left to right)
		b. the y-axis is the *depth of the image 
		c. the z-axis is the calculators y-axis(up to down)
	d. Zoom factor does not increase the coordinate bounds of the equations but rather scales their screen size to better display the x-y edges. 
	e. Imaginary numbers are completely removed from the coordinates displayed leaving square edges(seen in the case of a sphere)
	d. XGrid and YGrid
		a. XGrid is the value of grid lines parallel to the y-axis 
		b. YGrid is the value of grid lines parallel to the x-axis
		c. By default both values are 10 which is a good balance between memory and quality. 
		d. These should not be changed unless it is absolutely necessary as it may cause memory errors or may display lines which look out of place.
	e. Window Max and Min need to be correctly assigned(max > min NOT min > max) otherwise the program will crash. 


*depth is orthographic not perspective. 

	


 

